# Logging

1. Logging in Redhat involves capturing and storing system messages, warnings, and errors generated by various services and applications. 
2. This process is crucial for monitoring system health, troubleshooting issues, and maintaining security. Here are some key aspects of logging in Red Hat:

Rsyslog:
==================
Rsyslog is the primary logging service in RHEL. It collects log messages from various sources, processes them, and stores them in log files or forwards them to remote servers1.
The main configuration file for rsyslog is /etc/rsyslog.conf, where you can define rules for handling log messages based on their source, facility, and priority.

Systemd-journald:
===================
Systemd-journald is another important component that collects and stores log data. It works in conjunction with rsyslog to provide comprehensive logging capabilities1.
Logs collected by systemd-journald are stored in a binary format and can be accessed using the journalctl command.
Log Files

Most log files are stored in the /var/log/ directory. Some common log files include:
/var/log/messages: General system messages.
/var/log/secure: Security-related messages.
/var/log/cron: Cron job messages.
/var/log/maillog: Mail server messages.

Remote Logging
==================
RHEL supports remote logging, allowing you to centralize logs from multiple systems on a single server. This is useful for large environments where managing logs from individual systems can be cumbersome.


Example: Log all messages of priority info or higher to /var/log/messages:

Example: *.info;mail.none;authpriv.none;cron.none /var/log/messages

*.info:

This part means that all facilities (represented by *) with a priority level of info or higher will be logged. Facilities are categories of system processes that generate log messages, such as auth, cron, daemon, kern, etc.
Priority levels include debug, info, notice, warning, err, crit, alert, and emerg.
mail.none:

This indicates that messages from the mail facility should not be logged to /var/log/messages.
authpriv.none:

This means that messages from the authpriv facility (which handles security and authorization messages) should not be logged to /var/log/messages.
cron.none:

This specifies that messages from the cron facility (which handles cron job messages) should not be logged to /var/log/messages.
/var/log/messages:

This is the destination file where the log messages will be stored.


